# Football power by 2050? China football dream totters on shaky foundations

**totter:** move in a unstable way

**shaky**: not have foundation

Five years ago, China **pledged** to become a football power by 2050.But the financial collapse of the newly crowned Chinese champions raises fresh questions over that lofty goal.Jiangsu FC on Sunday said they had "ceased operations".

**pledge:** promise to do sth

**collapse:** suddenly fall or fail 

**lofty:** of a noble or exalted nature

**cease:** formal saying of stop

Burnt investors are retreating and last year 16 teams pulled out of Chinese football.More are set to follow.It is a far cry from when the Super League broke the Asian transfer record five times in less than a year.

**retreat:** to get their money out

**pull out of:** to quit 

**be set to:** ready to do sth

**a far cry from:** A is very different from B

State-run Xinhua news agency said that soaring salaries and transfer fees, as clubs vied to outspend each other, had created "a bubble" that is now bursting.

**vie to:** compete with sb

"The fundamental reason is that the foundation of Chinese professional football is too weak, " Journalist Ma Dexing wrote in a column on China’s Weibo platform.Clubs are built and run by companies which have little connection to the communities where they are based, Ma explained. "Therefore the survival of China's professional clubs directly depends on the economic situation of the enterprise or company, "he wrote.”Once the company or enterprise has problems, the club ceases to exist."

 That's what happened to Jiangsu FC, who were until recently called Jiangsu Suning, named after their backers.The Suning conglomerate is in financial peril and has cut the team loose.

**conglomerate:** a big company composed by lots of subsidiaries 

**peril:** in danger

The Shanghai Observer said clubs must abandon single-owner models in favour of multiple stakeholders including "government, enterprises, communities and even individuals".

**stakeholder:** interests related

"Super League clubs cannot only rely on blood transfusions from their parent company but must attract more sponsorship, match-day income (and improve) transfer market operations, etc., "it said in an opinion piece.

**transfusion:** to transfer blood

**sponsorship:** financial support received by sponsor

**match-day:**  day to hold a match





In recent years, with more and more companies withdrawn from footbool field, football clubs have to cease their operations due to financial shortage. Comany backed clubs are not suitable for the development of football because their lives are depending on their parent enterprises. Super League clubs should rely more on sponsorship, match-day income and improve transfer market operations.











