# French roosters now crow with the law behind them 

The **crow** of a **rooster** and the ringing of a church bell at dawn. The **rumble** of a **tractor** and the smell of **manure** **wafting** from a nearby **stable**. 

**crow**: sound made by roosters

**rooster**: male chickens (hen for female)

**rumble**: sound made by the mechines 

**tractor**: cars used in country side

**manure**: animal dung(shit) used for plants

**waft**: pass in a gental way(in the air)

**stable**: rooms for keeping horses

------

Rural sounds and smells such as these were given protection by French law last week, when lawmakers passed a **bill** to preserve"the **sensory** heritage of the countryside"after a series of widely **publicized** neighborhood **spats** in France's rural **corners**, many of them involving noisy animals. 

**bill**: approve a bill, some suggestions raised by senator 

**sensory**: feeling or physical senses

**corner**: faraway places

**spat**: samll quarrel, be angry or frustrated

**publicize**: draw a lot of attention by many people

------

The **disputes** symbolized **tensions** between urban **newcomers** and longtime country **dwellers**, **frictions** that have only grown as the coronavirus pandemic and a **string** of lockdowns draw new residents to the countryside. 

**dispute**: disaggrement, not approval

**dweller**: residents(usually used in writing)

**friction**: quarrel

**string**: original means line, here means a seriel of matters

------

Perhaps the most **prominent** of these noisy animals was Maurice, a rooster in Saint-Pierre-d'oleron, a town on an island off France's western coast. His owner had been **sued** by neighbors--regular vacationers in the area--because he crowed too loudly. Thousands or petitioners rushed to the rooster's defense, and court eventually ruled in 2019 that Maurice, who died last summer at the age of 6, was **well within his rights**.

**prominent**: most important, draw a lot of attention

**sue**: being charged

**petitioner**: a group of people has the same proposal

**within one’s rights**: somebody has the rights to do something

------

 The new law urges local administrations to **draw up** an **inventory** of their areas' "sensory heritage, to give newcomers a better sense of what to expect. 

**draw up**: starting to write

**inventory**: a list of something

------

It is too late for Maurice. But his **successor**, Maurice II, can now crow with the full-throated confidence of someone who has the law **on his side**. Corinne Fesseau, his owner, told France 2 television that she was **thrilled** by the new law.

**successor**: someday take one’s side after one died

**on one’s side**: have the same view, being backed

**thrill**: very happy and excited

------

 "The city has its noises, "she said. "So does the countryside."