# "Hi, Mom" is China's latest **mega**-hit

**mega:** very big or very popular

"Hi, Mom" is a hit in China: since its release in early February the movie has **grossed** more than 5bn yuan ($768m) at the box office. It is currently the second-highest-grossing film ever released in the country, and may yet **overtake** "Wolf Warrior 2", an action film from 2017.

**gross:** earned profit; very disgusting

**box office:** money earned by selling movie tickets

**overtake:** to catch sth; surpass

Written and directed by Jia Ling, the film is adapted from her comedy **routine** from 2016 which explored her relationship with her mother, who died in an accident when Ms Jia was 19. At a time when many people have been separated from their families, the themes of grief and **filial piety** in "Hi, Mom" resonated.For more quality courses, please add WeChat:one two two five zero zero one six six eight .

**routine:** daily habits

**filial:** due from the son or the daughter; love(son to their parents) 

**piety:** belief in sth; faithful

The film's impressive box-office **receipts** are also a **stark** reminder of the health of the industry in China compared with Hollywood. In the West cinemas remain closed due to lockdown or operate at limited capacity; in China, where many restrictions have been **lifted**, between 50% and 75% of seats are available to book. During the Spring Festival, Chinese cinemas made an estimated $1.5bn in ticket sales — 71% of takings at the American box office in all of 2020.

**receipt:** a amount of money received from a trade

**stark:** very clear; outstanding

**lift**: to take off; cancel 

The success of "Hi, Mom" also illustrates the increasing popularity of domestic productions. Ellen Eliasoph, a film executive who established Warner Bros' office in China in 1993, now believes "there's a **glass ceiling** in China for Hollywood movies". She notes that the only Hollywood film to have ever crossed the 3bn yuan mark in China is "Avengers: Endgame" (2019).

**glass ceiling:** the limitation of sth

cross mark: to pass sth

With cinemas shut, film-sales agents stopped bringing Hollywood movies to market. That has given locally made films a chance to excel. Since 2013, domestic films have taken around 60% of total box-office earnings. In 2021, that number may get closer to 100%.

excel: to be exceptionally good







