# Australia passes **landmark** law requiring tech firms to pay for news

landmark: n. famous and obvious bulildin of the city / very meamful and significent matter

Australia's parliament passed landmark **legislation** Thursday requiring global digital giants to pay for local news content, in a move closely watched around the world.

legislation: bill / pact

The law passed easily after a **last-gasp** deal that **watered down** binding rules Facebook and Google had fiercely opposed **in return for** the tech giants agreeing to pay local media companies.

**last-gasp:** in the final moment

**water down:** to add water / make things weaker

**in return for:**  to make sth happen

Regulators had **accused** the companies, who **dominate** online advertising, of **draining** cash away from traditional news organisations while using their content for free.

**accuse sb of doing sth** 

**dominate:** make sth the most important

**drain:** cause money to be lost / deprive of strength or vitality

Big tech firms had fiercely opposed the legislation **from the outset**, fearing it would threaten their business models. Google **was also keen to** avoid creating a precedent that platforms should pay anyone for links, something that could make their **flagship** search engine unworkable.

**from the outset:** from the beginning

**be keen to do:** eager to do sth

**flagship:** representive / the main part of sth

Facebook — which is much less reliant on news content — had initially said being forced to pay for news was simply not worth it and shut down access to news content for its Australian users.

The government said the law, called the News Media and Digital Platforms **Mandatory** Bargaining Code, would ensure that news businesses "are fairly **remunerated** for the content they generate, helping to sustain **public interest** journalism in Australia".

mandatory: required by law or rules / compulsive

remunerate: pay sb / compensation

public interest: noo-profit but good for society

Thousands of journalism jobs and scores of news **outlets** have been lost in Australia alone over the past decade as the **sector** watched advertising revenue flow to the digital players.

**outlet:** a place where goods are sold

**sector:** the department 

For every $\$$100 spent by Australian advertisers today,$\$ $49 goes to Google and ​24 to Facebook, according to the country's competition **watchdog**.

**watchdog:**  a person or group whose fuction is to monitor the companies

















