# China's **seniors**, seeking **retirement homes**, find **scams** instead

**retirement home:** some place to take care of the old

**scam:** fraud 

With every call and meeting, the salesperson **made the same pitch**: By investing just a little bit of money, Yang Jinzhong could **secure a spot** in a retirement home and make some extra cash to boot.In the end, Yang gave $31, 000, her life savings, to the retirement company.

**secure:** manage to get after some afforts

**spot:** a particular place

Now the company is one of hundreds of recent cases that are under investigation or have been **prosecuted** by Chinese authorities who have grown increasingly concerned about retirement home scams.

**prosecute:** being sued / He was proecuted by fraud.

By 2025, more than 300 million people in China will be 60 or older, according to the Chinese government.**In the wake of** China's **now-defunct** one-child policy and because of mass migration to big cities, fewer people can care for the growing gray population.

**in the wake of:** with the coming of sth

**now-defunt:** abandoned

China's government has **turned to** the private sector, promising **subsidies** and tax benefits for companies that build homes.But the cost of building a nursing home is high.In Beijing, for example, the monthly bill at retirement homes can be as high as $\$$1, 500, according to one report, **triple** the average retirement paycheck of $\$$535 a month.

**turn to:** ask sb for help

**private sector:** not owned by government

**subside:** allowance

**triple something:** 3 times / tripe is adj 

Some builders **skirt** laws that forbid them to accept money from residents before the retirement homes are built.Instead of **preselling** a bed directly, those builders create investment products that promise **high interest rates** in addition to future membership benefits.If they cannot presell enough beds to start construction, the project **evaporates** — and so does the money.

**skirt:** the edge ; avoid sth

**evapotate:** disappear 

The failures have become so severe that Chinese officials have **stepped in**. More than 1, 000 criminal cases have been filed against companies selling retirement services over the past four years, according to public records.

**step in:** inference



With the impact of one-child policy and mass migration to big cities, many seniors now face a problem of how to live out their lives in the future. Some retirement houses seize the minds of the old, persuading them to invest on nusing home project. If the developers can’t raise enough money, the project evaporates-and so does the money. The fraud become so serious that the government has stepped in.







