# The freeze in Texas exposes America's infrastructural failings

**freezing:** extremely cold

**failing:** weakness, fault

------

After a winter storm pummelled the Lone Star State with record snowfall and the lowest temperatures in more than 30 years, millions were left without electricity and heat.At the worst moment on February 16th, 4.5m Texan households were cut off from power

**pummel:** to hit repeatly

**Long Star State:** Texas

**Cut off:** shut down

------

Across the state, what were supposed to be "rolling" blackouts lasted for days.Texans are rightly furious that residents of America's energy capital cannot count on reliable power.Everyone is asking why.

**blackout:** out of power

**furious:** very angry, extremely angry

**rightly:** reasonable, correctly

------

The short answer is that the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT), which operates the grid, did not properly forecast the demand for energy as a result of the storm.

**grid:** power line

------

Plants broke down, as did the gas supply chain and pipelines.The cold also caused a reactor at one of the state's two nuclear plants to go offline.In short, Texas experienced a perfect storm of equipment failure.

**offline:** adv, not connected

------

The state's deregulated power market is also fiercely competitive.Because such cold weather is rare, energy companies do not invest in "winterising" their equipment, as this would raise their prices for consumers.

**regulate:** use rules to manage

**winterise:** make sth suitable in winter; to winterise trees

------

Perhaps most important, the state does not have a "capacity market" to ensure that there was extra power available for surging demand.Such systems elsewhere act as a sort of insurance policy so the lights will not go out, but it also means customers pay higher bills.

**surge:** increase rapidly

------

This storm "has exposed some serious weaknesses in our free-market approach in Texas", says Luke Metzger of Environment Texas, a non-profit, who had been without power for three full days.Weather events that once might have been dismissed as unusual are becoming more common.Without more investment in electricity grids, blackouts will be, too.

**be dismissed A as B:** not into consideration, don’t think meaningful or important; regard A as b so that not in consideration



**Why Texas suffers a lot from the storm?**

“Free market” system in supplying electricity makes enterprise impossible winterise their equipment beacause it means more cost. As a result, the storm makes nuclear plant offline, damage the gas supply chain and pipelines causing equipment failue. Also, the authorities made a wrong forecast of the demanding of power.











