# In Afghanistan, a **booming** kidney trade **preys on** the poor

kidney: an organ 

boom: develop qucikly

prey on: to hurt/deceive sb, target on sb, target sb as the prey

**Amid** the **bustle** of beggars and patients outside the crowded hospital here, there are sellers and buyers, **casting wary eyes** at one another: The poor, seeking cash for their **vital** organs, and the **gravely** ill or their **surrogates**, looking to buy.

amid: between sth(physically or virtually)

bustle: very busy; move in an energetic or busy manner

cast: look;throw / cast wary eyes: to see others in a worried way

vital: very important; full of energy

grave: n.the stone made for the died people / adj.serious

surrogate: to represent sb; a substitute of sb

The illegal kidney business is booming in the western city of Herat, **fueled** by **sprawling** **slums**, the surrounding land's poverty and unending war, an entrepreneurial hospital that **advertises** itself as the country's first kidney transplantation center, and officials and doctors who **turn a blind eye** to organ trafficking.

fuel: make things worse / add fuel to the fire: cause a difficult or conflict situation to worsen

sprawling: spreading out in a lazy and comfortable way.

slum: poor area

advertise as: to clarify as / describe or draw attention to (a product/service/...) in public way

turn a blind eye: choose not to see

In Afghanistan, as in most countries, the sale and purchase of organs is illegal, and so is the **implanting** of purchased organs by physicians. But the **practice** remains a worldwide problem.

implant: put something in 

practice: commen behavior

For the **impoverished** kidney sellers who recover in **frigid**, **unlit** apartments of **peeling** paint and concrete floors, temporarily **delivered** from crushing debt but too weak to work, in pain and unable to afford medication, the deal is a portal to new misery.

impoverished: extremely poor

frigid: very cold; show no friendness

unlit: no light; without fire

peeling: droppedd; remove the outer from sth

deliver sb from sth: save sb from sth

For Loqman Hakim Hospital, transplants are big business. Officials boast it has performed more than 1,000 kidney transplants in five years, in a city with a **seemingly** unending supply of fresh organs. How the organ recipient gets the donor to agree to the procedure is not the hospital's concern.

seemingly: apparently; as far as one knows

"In Afghanistan everything has a value, except human life," said Dr. Mahdi Hadid, a member of Herat's provincial council.Dr. Abdul Hakim Tamanna, Herat province's public health director, acknowledged the rise of the kidney black market in Afghanistan. "Unfortunately, this is common in poor countries," he said. "There's a lack of rule of law, and a lack of regulation surrounding this process."





## Summary

Because of the ignorance and poverty of the poor, the kidney trade became popular in Afghanistan. Also, lack of regulations. hospitals transplanting kidney make a lot of money during the business. People trading their kidney for cash live a miserable life because they are too weak to work again while the officials in the hospital shares no regrets.













