#  As smoke clears in Beirut, shock turns to anger 

Since an **orphaned shipment** of highly explosive chemicals arrived at the port of country's lack of electricity, **poisonous** tap water and **overflowing** garbage: by **bickering** and hoping the problem might solve itself. 

**orphaned** means something that nobody owned

**poisonous** tap water means water being polluted 

**overflow** means full of something 

**bicker** means argue about petty and trivial matters / quarrel

------

But the 2, 750 tons of high-density **ammonium nitrate combusted** Tuesday, **unleashing** a shock wave on the Lebanese capital that **gutted** landmark buildings, killed 135 people, wounded at least 5, 000 and **rendered** hundreds of thousands of residents homeless.

**combust** means consume by fire, burn

**leash**’s orginial meaning is a dog chain, here uses its extended meaning restriction, unleash means release

**gut**: original meaning organs inside the body, here means hollowing out interal organs, make the inside empty, destroy the inside of the building 

**render**: cause to be, make

------

 Many saw the explosion as the **culmination** of years of **mismanagement** and neglect by the country's politicians. 

**culmination**: the highest or climactic point of something, especially as attained after long time

------

After its civil war ended in 1990, Lebanon aimed to rebulld itself as a cultural and financial hub in the Middle East. But former **warlords** became **power-brokers** in its weak **sectarian** democracy, which divided power and **spoils **among the nation's 18 recognized religious sects.

**hub**: center of something

**warlord**: war and lord, the person using millitary mights to lord an area

**power-broker**: someone who can has great power which can influence the country’s politics

**spoils**: something that achieved by robbing

the spoils of the war: things achieved by winning a war

**sect**: a group of people has the same religious belif

------

 The system led to **chronic** political **deadlock** and widespread corruption, as well as **shoddy** infrastructure and massive government debt. 

**chronic**: some diseases lasting for a long time

**deadlock**: the situation the two sides cannot reach an agreement 

**shoddy**: broken or not maintained for a long time

------

Public dissatisfaction **boiled over** late last year, when protester **took to the streets** calling for the **ouster** of the political class. The protests **toppled** the prime minister, but Lebanon's troubles only grew worse. Since then, the currency has lost 80% of its value, unemployment has **spiked** and prices have **skyrocketed**. 

**boil over**: explode, overflow of something

**take to the streets**: protest on the streets

**ouster**: dismissal or expulsion from a position

the ouster of someone 

**toppled** : make someone resign in a force way 

**spike**: rapid incresement of something

**skyrocketed**: inscrese very rapidly like a rocket launched to the sky

------

Few Lebanese have any faith that the government will help them or **get to the bottom of** the explosion that **ravaged** the capital.

**get to the bottom of**: find the truth of something

**ravage**: greatly damaged, devastate

------

 "We aren't expecting any support because there is no state, "said Tony Toufic,a hospital engineer.



