 # Paris agrees to turn Champs-Elysees into '**extraordinary** garden’

**extraordinary:** unusual or remarkable

------

The mayor of Paris has said a €250m **makeover** of the Champs-Élysées will **go ahead**. Anne Hidalgo said the planned work, would turn the 1.9 km **stretch** into "an extraordinary garden”. The plans include **reducing space for vehicles by half**, turning roads into pedestrian and green areas, and creating tunnels of trees to improve air quality.

**makeover:** transformation of something, change of somebody

**go head:** happen 

**stretch:** (v.)stretch arms and legs; (n.)a long and narrow road or river

------

The Champs-Élysées' name is French for the **mythical** Greek paradise, the Elysian Fields. It was originally a mixture of **swamp** and kitchen gardens. André Le Nôtre, Louis XIV's gardener, first designed the wide **promenade** lined with a double row of elm trees on each side, called the Grand Cours. It was renamed the Champs-Élysées in 1709 and extended, and by the end of the century had become a popular place to walk and picnic.

**mythical:** folk or myths

**swamp:**  an area of ground where water collected

**promenade:** a pave for walking on

------

Paris celebrated the 1944 **liberation** from Nazi **occupation** on the Champs-Élysées and World Cup victories still **bring out** the crowds, but its famous charm has faded and it is mostly shunned by Parisians.

**liberation:** free of something

**occupation:** original from occupy(take over someplace)

**bring out:** bring people out from inside

**fade:** gradually disappear

**shun:** avoid by somebody

------

Today it is famous for its expensive cafes, luxury shops, **high-end** car salesrooms, commercial rents among the highest in the world and the annual Bastille Day **military parade**.

**high-end:** luxury and high quality

**parade:** march usually for celebrating the festival

**Bastille Day:** July 14, the date of the storming of the Bastille in 1789, celebrated as a national holiday in France.

------

The architect Philippe Chiambaretta, whose firm **drew up** the makeover plans, said the Champs-Élysées had become a place that **summed up** the problems faced by cities around the world, "pollution, the place of the car, tourism and consumerism", and needed to be redeveloped to be "**ecological, desirable and inclusive**".

**draw up:** make the plan

**sum up:** add up, or conclusion of something

**consumerism:** the promotion of consumtion

**ecological: ** eco-friendly

**desirable:** wanted 

**inclusive:** being accepted by people 

**exclusive:** not admitted by other people



