# An afternoon **nap** could improve your **cognitive** abilities, study says

nap: sleep a while  / napper: someone who nap 

cognitive: relating to senceray ability

Taking an afternoon **snooze** could keep your brain **sharp**, a new study has said.Adults ages 60 and older who took afternoon naps showed signs of better mental **agility** compared to those who didn't nap, according to a study published in General Psychiatry earlier this week.

snooze: sleep a while/ take a snooze

sharp: clever, full of energy

agility: think quickly/ sharp 

Researchers analyzed napping habits in 2,214 **older Chinese people** and measured their cognitive abilities using several cognitive tests. Participants took **the Mini-Mental State Examination** and **the Beijing version of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment**, both of which test for memory, language and other cognitive abilities. In every category listed in the study, nappers tested **statistically** higher **on average** compared to their non-napping **counterparts**.

habits in sb: sb has the habits  

counterpart: counter(the opposite of sth/matching something)/ sth or sb in the same corresponding side

Researchers did not gather data from people under 60, so a **correlation** cannot be **drawn** between napping and younger generations. The study also noted that there are **conflicting** studies about the benefits and risks of napping.

correlation: connection(direct or indirect)

conflict: not comparable 

Sleeping behaviors can be affected by **a multitude of** factors, said Dr. David Neubauer, **associate** professor at **Johns Hopkins University**. Daily routines, medication use and sleep **disorders** can all play a role in how frequently someone takes a nap, he said.

associate: the second class of some occupation

a multitude of: a lot of/a large number of

disorder: not in routine



Neubauer recommended taking a shorter "**power nap**" of up to 20 minutes to decrease the chances of **transitioning** into **slow-wave sleep**, which makes people feel **groggy** when they wake up. Napping can be a healthy part of an older adult's day, Neubauer acknowledged, but make sure sleepiness isn't due to a treatable nighttime sleep disorder. "Older individuals who want to do all they can to **preserve** their cognitive **functioning** should **prioritize** nighttime sleep."

groggy: fatigue, very sleepy / grog: a wine 

perserve: to keep something , to maintain some state

prioritize: keep sth in a more important way











